## Privacy Policy

OpenMRS built the OpenMRS Client app as an Open Source app. This SERVICE is provided by OpenMRS at no cost and is intended for use as is.

This page is used to inform visitors regarding our policies with the collection, use, and disclosure of Personal Information if anyone decided to use our Service.

If you choose to use our Service, then you agree to the collection and use of information in relation to this policy. The Personal Information that we collect is used for providing and improving the Service. We will not use or share your information with anyone except as described in this Privacy Policy.

The terms used in this Privacy Policy have the same meanings as in our Terms and Conditions, which is accessible at OpenMRS Client unless otherwise defined in this Privacy Policy.

**Information Collection and Use**
For a better experience, while using our Service, we may require you to provide us with certain *personally identifiable information*, including but not limited to 

1. Patient's full name
2. Patient’s full address
3. Patient’s Gender, Birth-date and Age
4. Patient’s Photographs
5. Patient's Provider Information
6. Notes on symptoms and other information
7. Medical Diagnostics and Vitals (Body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure,etc)
8. Medical treatment information
9. Medical appointments

The information that we request will be retained by us and used as described in this privacy policy.
The app does use third party services that may collect information used to identify you.
Link to privacy policy of third party service providers used by the app

*   [Google Play Services](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)

**Log and App Usage Data**
1.  App’s log data – This log data may include certain outputs of the app, success and failure states of network calls, etc.
2.  App usage data - This App Usage Data may include information such as your computer’s IP address, device model and version, device identifier, operating system, time zone, name of your mobile operator or ISP, application performance measurements, and error conditions

**Cookies**
Cookies are files with a small amount of data that are commonly used as anonymous unique identifiers. These are sent to your browser from the websites that you visit and are stored on your device's internal memory.

This Service does not use these “cookies” explicitly. However, the app may use third party code and libraries that use “cookies” to collect information and improve their services. You have the option to either accept or refuse these cookies and know when a cookie is being sent to your device. If you choose to refuse our cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of this Service.

**Service Providers**
We may employ third-party companies and individuals due to the following reasons:

*   To facilitate our Service;
*   To provide the Service on our behalf;
*   To perform Service-related services; or
*   To assist us in analyzing how our Service is used.

We want to inform users of this Service that these third parties have access to your Personal Information. The reason is to perform the tasks assigned to them on our behalf. However, they are obligated not to disclose or use the information for any other purpose.

**Data Storage**
The app is meant for both Offline as well as Online use. Therefore, we store the data both locally on the device as well as on our servers.

**Security**
We value your trust in providing us your Personal Information, thus we are striving to use commercially acceptable means of protecting it. But remember that no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure and reliable, and we cannot guarantee its absolute security. Some of the security measures taken by us are:

*Client Side*
1. Hashing Users’ Password – this App uses [BCrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) hashing function.
2.  Local Database Encryption – Uses [AES-256 Cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) (using a combination of username and password as its key)

*Server Side*
1.  Patient’s Identifiers are Validated using [Mod10](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm) algorithm. This is used while creating new Patient’s Identifiers and avoid errors.
2.  Data is transmitted through a Secure SSL Connection
3.  Strings are Hashed using [SHA-512](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2)

**Data Retention**
We retain all the data generated by the app and web client. If an account is deactivated/deleted, we move the data related to that account away from our active database BUT is retained in our Backup database.

**How do we use your data**
1.  We do not sell your data
2.  All these personal details helps in creating a record of a certain patient. It helps the Users of this app (the Providers) to maintain the track of the patient.
3.  For users’ assistance we may require the personal details of the Patients (such as DoB, name, etc) to easily track the patient and find their records
4.  We may aggregate and combine all personal information that we receive through the app from the Patient’s section as well as from the app’s log and usage data and use them to provide better experience across our platforms (both Web and Mobile)

**Information Sharing and Disclosure**
1.  The Patients are not our immediate/Primary/End Users of this app
2.  The Providers (Nurse, Doctor, Clerk) are the primary End-users of this app
3.  The Patients’ data is shared across various Providers with respect to the proceedings of the Patient’s visit, treatment, etc
4.  Compliance with Laws and Law Enforcement: We may disclose files stored in your OpenMRS account and other information about you to third parties when we have a good faith belief that disclosure is reasonably necessary to: (a) comply with a law, regulation or legal requests including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements; (b) protect the safety of any person from death or serious bodily injury; (c) prevent fraud or abuse of OpenMRS or its user, or (d) protect OpenMRS’s property rights.

**Links to Other Sites**

This Service may contain links to other sites. If you click on a third-party link, you will be directed to that site. Note that these external sites are not operated by us. Therefore, we strongly advise you to review the Privacy Policy of these websites. We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies, or practices of any third-party sites or services.

**Children’s Privacy**

These Services do not address anyone under the age of 13\. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13\. In the case we discover that a child under 13 has provided us with personal information, we immediately delete this from our servers. If you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your child has provided us with personal information, please contact us so that we will be able to do necessary actions.

**Changes to This Privacy Policy**

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

**Contact Us**

If you have any questions or suggestions about our Privacy Policy, do not hesitate to contact us.

This privacy policy page was created at [privacypolicytemplate.net](https://privacypolicytemplate.net) and modified/generated by [App Privacy Policy Generator](https://app-privacy-policy-generator.firebaseapp.com/)